So in this last video about
the Trillo Project, I just wanted to make
some final remarks about the project
itself and flexbox, in general.
So here I have that web app I showed you before,
called CanIUse.com.
And so in here, we can see the browser support
for various CSS properties and entire modules as well,
so like the flexbox module,
and so that's what I have here.
So I just typed flexbox here and
then down here we can see the browser support for flexbox.
So here I can hit Show All and so now we can see
which browsers do support and which don't support flexbox.
So you see that with Internet Explorer 11,
there are some problems with that,
and with the 10 as well.
But you also see that their usage is not really that big,
like .11% or 3%.
Then you see that all the Microsoft Edges support it,
Firefox as well, Chrome, Safari, Opera as well,
and even here mobile Safari on IOS.
So the only problem that you may have is here with
the older Android browsers but it also supports flexbox
here with the web kit prefix.
Then you also have this Android stock browser here,
which just supports the old flexbox pack
and does not support rapping.
So overall, you see the browser support is not
all of that bad so actually up here,
you can see the global stats.
And you see that actually 88, almost 89%,
of the web users, do actually support the unprefixed
version of flexbox, which is the one we're looking for.
So its not all that bad.
Now remember that a long time ago,
I think it was in the first project or so,
that I said that flexbox is not really ready to be reused,
so I said that because I assumed that the goal was
to support everyone, so every user on every browser.
But if you're okay with, for example,
dropping these older versions of Internet Explorer,
then that's absolutely fine, and you can go ahead and use
flexbox today for all your sites, all your apps,
and never again have to use a flow of layouts.
And if that's okay with you, then it's perfectly fine.
Just remember that layout is a fundamental part
of any website or any web app, and so if a browser
doesn't support it, well, it's gonna look really messy
to that user.
And actually I wanted to know, how the trillo app
would look like without flexbox and so,
I simply disabled all the flexbox in our app,
and that's what it looked like, okay.
So it looks really terrible as you can see,
so moving down here, this is how our website looks,
or our app, without any flexbox support at all.
Now it's still kind of usable, but of course,
it looks just terrible, okay.
Now for users on Internet Explorer like 10, or 9, or 8 even,
many of the features we're using here
are not going to work anyway,
so you kind of have to decide anyway if you want to support
these users or not when you use other properties,
that I showed you along this project,
and the other project as well.
So again, using flexbox or not,
is a decision you have to take,
keeping in mind that maybe some users will not
really be able to see our page, but that might be
actually completely fine.
For example, the Internet Explorer users,
they are many times older people or maybe people working
in older companies that don't update their
computers or their operating systems,
and therefore they're stuck with Internet Explorer.
But if that's not the audience of your website anyway,
well, then you can just assume that you don't need to
support them, and then it's no problem to
simply start using flexbox right now.
So that's what I wanted to say about support.
And since we're talking about support,
let's actually open up our app here in an older Safari,
actually I mean in an older Firefox
that I showed you before.
Because then here you will see that the mask image
property that we used here is not working,
right, so you cannot see these icons here because
the mask image and mask side properties that we used
are simply not working.
So back then when we implemented this,
I said that I was gonna write a feature query for that
a bit later and right now, that's the time to do it.
So let's move back to our code editor,
and here to our list, and so we are going to write a
feature query containing this part here of the code.
So how do we do that?
Well, its just support, and then we have to put
the property that we want supported.
So we want web kit mask image, to be supported.
And remember we also have to specify a value here,
and so I'm just gonna put an empty image here,
it doesn't really matter.
This is just because we really have to specify the value.
Or, the same thing here but without the prefix.
Okay, so if you put something with the prefix here,
we should also include the diversion without the prefix.
So, if we support the mask image, then of course,
this is what should happen,
but if we don't, well, then, this is what happens.
So the background image set to the icon,
and our background size cover.
So that was actually the first solution that I showed you
back then, but the problem with this is, remember,
is that we cannot change the color of the icon.
But that's something that we cannot really change,
so the on this older Mozilla broswers, for example,
the user will just see the icon in black,
not in our pink color.
Now this is not really going to work,
but let me show you why, okay.
So, actually here, it's not working here in Firefox
but if you take a look at Chrome now,
you see that it's also black.
So let's take a look at that.
So you see that, of course, the mask image,
and the mask cover are applied because in fact,
we do support the mask image.
Now the problem here is that at the same time,
the background image is also active,
and so we have to basically remove that,
because if we didn't have the background image,
then it would look just fine.
Okay, so what we have to do here now is to just say
background-image, none, and that should fix it.
So you see?
Now we have our pink icon, here in Chrome,
and if we go to Safari, we have it in black,
because it doesn't support the mask-image.
So that's the power of the feature query
using the support attribute.
Next up, I also wanted to run or build process here
in this project, so, let's close this folder.
So this is here, or package.json file,
remember that right in the beginning,
we actually edited and reduced the build process here
to only three steps, so compiled, prefix, and compressed.
So let's just take a look at our compiled CSS file,
which we already have here, which is this one.
And so we see that we actually wrote
over 500 lines of CSS code, so that's a great job,
a lot of code here.
And now, let me just take a look at the file size here.
So, just because I'm curious, this has 13K,
so that's not really a lot but anyway,
let us apply our build process
and see how much we can reduce this.
So, let's open up the terminal here,
and actually it's already here,
and I'm gonna increase the font size of it
so you can see what's going on,
and I will actually stop this process here
so the one that we used for development
which tracks changes on our files.
So on the mask I just hit command C,
and on Windows, you'll probably
just have to close the window.
Alright, so lets decrease this a bit,
and for now I'm going to do it one by one,
okay so that we have all the files,
or actually, that's not really necessary because
if we simply run the build process here,
then it will actually also give us all of these three files.
MPM, run,
build, CSS.
And here we go.
So that's actually it.
So, our initial file is our complied file,
so this one here, right?
And this one is actually exactly the sane as the one
that we looked at before,
then from there comes the prefixed file,
and so let's see if it adds any prefix here.
And yeah, it added to the box sizing,
and so you see it also added a bunch of prefixes here
for flexbox, so this is our original one,
then we have MS flexbox which stands for
the oldest specification on Microsoft.
So MS flexbox is like the same as flex but
in older versions of Internet Explorer,
and then there's even something called web kit box,
which was a very early implementation
of the flexbox specification in web kit box.
Then down here, you also have some older versions of
the flexbox and that's practically the same
as justify content space between, which used to be called
MS flexpeck justify, and that's completely different but
this is just to support the bit older Internet Explorers.
So you'll find this here everywhere that we use flexbox,
and so our file grew from I think we had 500 lines
to 667 lines,
and this down here is something called
a source map, okay, doesn't really matter right now.
So we have all of this CSS code right now,
and that's then compressed in our final CSS file,
so all of this code here,
and then this way it doesn't even look like so much.
Let's just take a look at how much
space its occupying right now,
so we had 13K and now we have 14K,
and that's even more than we had before.
I guess that's because of all of the prefixes,
that we're at it, so of course that's not a huge deal.
So 1K doesn't make any difference at all.
So that was our build process,
so just looking again at our site here,
just one very quick thing that I want to say,
is that this layout could also easily have been built
with an even newer CSS module called CSS Grid Layout.
So that Grid Layout would maybe even be better
for laying out the global overall layout of this app here.
So in modern CSS development, flexbox is many times used
in conjunction with the newer CSS Grid Layout module,
so that the older layout of the page or the app
can be done with Grid and then the smaller details
like most of the stuff we did here in the interface
can be handled by using flexbox.
But that's a topic for another project,
and actually I will also have a Grid project
right in this course, not at lunch time,
but it's gonna be there a little bit later.
So keep an eye out for that,
and by then you will have learned everything
there is to know about the very new, very modern,
and really great CSS grid layout.
So, we're now almost done,
but another thing that I wanted to talk about is
that there are actually many many ways to make this
project even better.
And these would be amazing ways for you to practice
your new skills.
So I came up with a couple of challenges
for you to try out if you feel like it.
So the first challenge that I came up with is,
for you to display some kind of user menu when the user
hovers over the username in the user-nav.
Okay, so something like user settings
or something like that.
Then something very similar is to display a message menu
when hovering over the chat icon in user-nav,
so imagine something like Facebook,
so when you hit the message icon, then it shows
a list of your latest messages, right?
So you could code up something like that.
Another thing that would be really cool would be to
display a box with suggestions as soon as the user
starts typing in the input field,
so up there in our search bar.
So imagine when you Google something,
and it also shows you this box with some suggestions,
and you could code up something like that.
Now next, you could also create a caption for the gallery
item with a nice hover effect,
so right now, we only have the figure element there,
with an image but without any caption,
and so you could add one caption and show that
with a nice hover effect when we hover the image.
And finally, you could make the page really 100% responsive
even for viewport sizes below the 500px,
because that's something we didn't really do
because I didn't want to waste anymore of your time
watching me type simple code, okay?
And maybe you could even implement responsive images
like we did in the Natures project.
So these are five challenges for you to have some
more fun with this project and with flexbox in general.
Now I didn't actually code these up myself,
and so of course I don't have a solution that I could
show you but it would be really interesting to see
how each and everyone of you implements these features
in a different way.
So if you do these challenges,
then please please share your results in the questions area.
I would really love to see your results, alright?
Can you do that?
Okay, and with this, we actually wrap up our Trillo Project.
So I hope that you had as much fun building it
as I did by building it with you together in these videos.
And even more, I hope that you learned everything
you want and need to know about flexbox so that now you
can go ahead and code up your own design ideas and layouts,
using the immense power and flexibility of flexbox.
Alright, so that's it for this section.
Hope to see you in the next one.